Docs for local shader arrays (#2635)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/shading/shading_reference/shading_language.rst

to find out more. In all honesty though, mobile drivers are buggy, so, to stay out of trouble, make simple 
shaders without specifying precision unless you *really* need to.

Arrays
------

> Arrays are containers for the multiple variables of similar type. In GLSL they can be declared local to function, global space or uniform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrays are containers for multiple variables of a similar type. In GLSL, they can be declared local to a function, global to a shader, or as an uniform.
```

PS: Should we mention GLSL functionality here, since only local arrays are implemented in Godot? This could be confusing to users.

Author: Removed

> Note: At the time of 3.2 only local arrays has been implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: As of Godot 3.2, only local arrays have been implemented.
```

Local arrays
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Local arrays are declared in the functions. They can use all of the allowed datatypes, except the samplers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local arrays are declared in functions. They can use all of the allowed datatypes, except samplers.
```

> Declaration of the array is follow the C syntax : 'typename + identifier + [array size]'.

Reviewer: The array declaration follows a C-style syntax: ``typename + identifier + [array size]``.

.. code-block:: glsl

    void fragment() {
        float arr[3];
    }

They can be initialized at the beginning like:

.. code-block:: glsl

      float arr[3] = float[3] (1.0, 0.5, 0.0); // first init form

      vec2 arr_v2[2] = { vec2(0.0, 0.0), vec2(1.0, 1.0) }; // second form

      bool bvec_arr[] = { false, false, true, true }; // third form - size is defined automatically from the argument count

>       // Note: The last two forms are syntax sugar - these forms are not presented in GLSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // Note: The last two forms are syntax sugar - these forms are not present in GLSL.
```

Author: Removed this note

> You can declare multiple arrays (even with different sizes) in one line like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can declare multiple arrays (even with different sizes) in one line:
```

.. code-block:: glsl

>       float a[3] = float[3] (1.0, 0.5, 0.0), b[2] = {1.0, 0.5}, c[] = { 0.7 }, d = 0.0, e[5];

Reviewer: Maybe this could be split over several lines for readability (if possible) :slightly_smiling_face:

> To access the element of an array simply use indexing syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access an array element, use the indexing syntax:
```

.. code-block:: glsl

      float arr[3];
      
      arr[0] = 1.0; // setter
      
      COLOR.r = arr[0]; // getter

> The arrays also have the in-bound function **length**. Its not the same **length** as known built-in - it will return integer represented a size of the array and do not accept parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The arrays also have the in-bound function ``.length()`` (not to be confused with the built-in ``length()` function). It doesn't accept any parameters and will return the array's size.
```

.. code-block:: glsl

    float arr[] = { 0.0, 1.0, 0.5, -1.0 };

>     for(int i = 0; i < arr.length(); i++) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for (int i = 0; i < arr.length(); i++) {
```

Arrays
------

Arrays are containers for multiple variables of a similar type.
Note: As of Godot 3.2, only local arrays have been implemented.

Local arrays
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Local arrays are declared in functions. They can use all of the allowed datatypes, except samplers.
The array declaration follows a C-style syntax: ``typename + identifier + [array size]``.

.. code-block:: glsl

    void fragment() {
        float arr[3];
    }

They can be initialized at the beginning like:

.. code-block:: glsl

      float arr[3] = float[3] (1.0, 0.5, 0.0); // first constructor

      vec2 arr_v2[2] = { vec2(0.0, 0.0), vec2(1.0, 1.0) }; // second constructor

      bool bvec_arr[] = { false, false, true, true }; // third constructor - size is defined automatically from the argument count

You can declare multiple arrays (even with different sizes) in one expression:

.. code-block:: glsl

      float a[3] = float[3] (1.0, 0.5, 0.0),
       b[2] = {1.0, 0.5},
       c[] = { 0.7 },
       d = 0.0,
       e[5];

To access an array element, use the indexing syntax:

.. code-block:: glsl

      float arr[3];
      
      arr[0] = 1.0; // setter
      
      COLOR.r = arr[0]; // getter

> The arrays also have the in-bound function ``.length()`` (not to be confused with the built-in ``length()`` function). It doesn't accept any parameters and will return the array's size.

Reviewer 2: Should be "Arrays also have a built-in function ..."

.. code-block:: glsl

    float arr[] = { 0.0, 1.0, 0.5, -1.0 };
    for (int i = 0; i < arr.length(); i++) {
        // ...
    }

> Note: If you used an index below 0 or greater than array size - the shader will crash and rendering will likely become broken. 

Reviewer 2: Should be "If you use an index below 0" Note that it is "use" not used". 

And "the shader will crash and break rendering"

> To prevent this use ``length``, ``if`` or ``clamp`` functions and carefully test and check your code.

Reviewer 2: "To prevent this, use ``length(), ``if, or ``clamp()`` functions to ensure the index is between 0 and the array's length. Always carefully test and check your code.

> If you pass a simple constant expression, however, the editor will check its bounds to prevent this crash.

Reviewer 2: "If you pass a constant expression or a simple number, the editor will check..."

Author: Ah.. constant expressions still cause crash. May be fixed later. For now I leave only simple number

Author: Nvm, revert it back - I think I can fix this problem right now
